README.md, before:

## Overview
This repository serves as an entry-point for multiple community-maintained components in the Kubermatic ecosystem. Feedback is highly encouraged 👍

## Components
Dedicated components for customer purposes.

Name|Description
---|---
[certificates/self-signed-ca](components/certificates/self-signed-ca) | How to create and managed self-signed CA at KKP
[controllers/aws-private-ip-enforce-controller](components/controllers/aws-private-ip-enforce-controller) | Enforces the `assignPublicIP: false` flag on all user cluster machine deployments
[controllers/component-override-controller](components/controllers/component-override-controller) | This bash-controller watches over Cluster objects and controls part of the spec.componentOverride.
[controllers/external-dns-route53](components/controllers/external-dns-route53) | [external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) is a controller that automatically creates dns records for your ingresses and loadbalancer services. This is a chart that deploys an opinionated configuration for working with AWS Route 53
[controllers/pod-cidr-controller](components/controllers/pod-cidr-controller) | This bash-controller watches over Cluster objects and patches spec.clusterNetwork.pods.cidrBlocks
[cron-jobs/scale-down](components/cron-jobs/scale-down) | running a cron job that scales down worker nodes during non work hours and weekends.
[id-management/active-directory](components/id-management/active-directory) | Example how to configure KKP with Active Directory
[loadbalancers/metallb](components/loadbalancers/metallb) | Example config for MetalLB what aims to redress this imbalance by offering a Network LB implementation that integrates with standard network equipment
[logging/audit/static-audit-log](components/logging/audit/static-audit-log) | Description how static audit logging could get configured
[vm-images/packer-ubuntu1804-vsphere-template](./components/vm-images/packer-ubuntu1804-vsphere-template)|A packer template to customize an ubuntu 18.04 cloud-image on vSphere

## Kubermatic Example Setups

Name|Description
---|---
[vSphere kubeOne / Kubermatic demo](./examples/vsphere-kubeone-kubermatic)| an example for running kubermatic on vSphere with kubeOne to install the

## Kubermatic Addons

Configuration and tooling for common used [Kubermatic Addons](https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/master/advanced/addons/) for user cluster customization.

Name|Description
---|---
[Makefile](kubermatic-addons/Makefile) | Wrapper for building KKP addons for a dedicated version
[addon-manifests](kubermatic-addons/addon-manifests) | Holding the `AddonConfig` custom resource specifications for a set of addons to configure KKP UI
[custom-addon/dns-resolve-overwrite](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/dns-resolve-overwrite) | A DaemonSet with privileged permissions to overwrite the host DNS at the kubernetes nodes
[custom-addon/echoserver](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/echoserver) | Simple echo server application as an example workload deployment with ingress config
[custom-addon/helm-operator](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/helm-operator) | Deploys the [FluxCD - Helm Operator](https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-operator) for managing additional deployment trough Helm by CRD
[kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/ingress-nginx](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/ingress-nginx) | Deploys the [Ingress Nginx Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) to the user cluster
[custom-addon/loki-stack](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/loki-stack) | (Requires Helm Operator) Add Grafana Loki stack based on [Grafana Loki Charts](https://grafana.github.io/loki/charts)
[custom-addon/metallb](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/metallb) | MetalLB cluster addon for on-premise user cluster without native LB support
[custom-addon/theia-ide](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/theia-ide) | Customized KKP addon for quickly using [Eclipse Theia IDE](https://theia-ide.org/) at your Kubernetes cluster.
[custom-addon/trident-installer](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/trident-installer)| Addon for [NetApp Trident](https://github.com/NetApp/trident) storage support into a user cluster
[custom-addon/openebs](kubermatic-addons/custom-addons/openebs) | [OpenEBS](https://openebs.io/) addon for on-premise users without distributed storage
[custom-addon/amd-gpu](kubermatic-addons/custom-addons/amd-gpu) | [AMD-GPU](https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/k8s-device-plugin) device plugin addon
[custom-addon/kubeflow](kubermatic-addons/custom-addons/kubeflow) | [Kubeflow](https://github.com/kubermatic/flowmatic) Machine Learning Toolkit

## Helper
List of helper scripts and tools

Name|Description
---|---
[git-crypt](./helper/git-crypt)| [git-crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt) is a tooling to encrypt git repositories based GPG keys
[kubeone-tool-container](./helper/kubeone-tool-container)|A docker container with various tools to work with KubeOne and Kubernetes
[kubermatic-installer-script](helper/kubermatic-installer-script) | Contains a standalone usage of [kubermatic - deploy.sh](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/blob/master/hack/ci/deploy.sh) repo installation script for own installations.
[kubermatic-makefile](helper/kubermatic-makefile/Makefile) | Contains a template `Makefile` to manage kubermatic deployments
[ssh-debug](helper/ssh-debug) | SSH Debug Client for quickly ssh to nodes in an internal network
[vault/vault-k8s-mapper](helper/vault/vault-k8s-mapper) | Maps Vault secret as native Kubernetes secret into a defined namespace/secret.
[vault/vault-kv-management.sh](helper/vault/vault-kv-management.sh) | Management script to up/download secrets to a vault secret kv store.
[delete-evicted-pods-all-ns.sh](helper/delete-evicted-pods-all-ns.sh) | Deletes pods in state `evicted`
[headless.vnc.test.container.yaml](helper/headless.vnc.test.container.yaml) | [docker-headless-vnc-container](https://github.com/ConSol/docker-headless-vnc-container) container containing Linux UI exposed via webvnc for testing e.g. dashboards from internal cluster view
[kill-kube-ns.sh](helper/kill-kube-ns.sh) | kills a pending kubernetes namespace
[kubeconfig-kubermatic-serviceaccount.sh](/helper/kubeconfig-kubermatic-serviceaccount.sh) | creates an `kubermatic` service account at an seed cluster
[machinedeployment-patch.gce.sh](helper/machinedeployment-patch.gce.sh) | Scripts patches some specification of an Cluster API `MachineDeployment` object.
[set-build-tags-to-image.sh](helper/set-build-tags-to-image.sh) | Set dedicated build tags to the [Kubermatic Charts](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/tree/master/charts)
[untaint_master.sh](helper/untaint_master.sh) | untaints all master nodes, to be able to schedule workload

## Knowledge Base
Helpful how-tos and detailed documentation:

Name | Description
--- | ---
[setup-checklist/kkp](./knowledge-base/setup-checklist/kkp) | Detailed requirement documentation to setup Kubermatic KKP at different environments
[setup-checklist/kubeone](./knowledge-base/setup-checklist/kubeone) | Detailed requirement documentation to setup KubeOne at different environments
[how-to-convert-to-docx](./knowledge-base/how-to-convert-to-docx.md) | Commands to convert markdown to docx
[migrate-helm2-to-helm3](./knowledge-base/migrate-helm2-to-helm3.md) | This document shows you how to migrate Heml releases from using Helm version 2.x with Tiller to being managed by Helm version 3.x in place.
[node-health-check](knowledge-base/node-health-check.md)| This doc describes how Kubermatic node health checks works
[nvidia-gpu-operator](knowledge-base/nvidia-gpu-operator.md) | How to enable GPU support for KKP clusters by [NVIDIA - GPU Operator](https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/)
[offline-setup](knowledge-base/offline-setup.md) | How to run kubermatic in offline environments
[upload-ova-with-govc](knowledge-base/upload-ova-with-govc.md) | How to upload ova by using `govc`

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues [file an issue][1] or talk to us on the [#kubermatic channel][12] on the [Kubermatic Slack][15].

## Contributing

Thanks for taking the time to join our community and start contributing!

Feedback and discussion are available on [#kubermatic channel][12].

### Before you start

* Please familiarize yourself with the [Code of Conduct][4] before contributing.
* See [CONTRIBUTING.md][2] for instructions on the developer certificate of origin that we require.

### Pull requests

* We welcome pull requests. Feel free to dig through the [issues][1] and jump in.

## Changelog

See [the list of releases][3] to find out about feature changes.

[1]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/issues
[2]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[3]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/releases
[4]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

[11]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubermatic-dev
[12]: https://kubermatic.slack.com/messages/kubermatic
[13]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/blob/master/Zenhub.md
[15]: http://slack.kubermatic.io/

Commit message:

Add Bash Port-Scanner to README.md

README.md, after:

## Overview
This repository serves as an entry-point for multiple community-maintained components in the Kubermatic ecosystem. Feedback is highly encouraged 👍

## Components
Dedicated components for customer purposes.

Name|Description
---|---
[certificates/self-signed-ca](components/certificates/self-signed-ca) | How to create and managed self-signed CA at KKP
[controllers/aws-private-ip-enforce-controller](components/controllers/aws-private-ip-enforce-controller) | Enforces the `assignPublicIP: false` flag on all user cluster machine deployments
[controllers/component-override-controller](components/controllers/component-override-controller) | This bash-controller watches over Cluster objects and controls part of the spec.componentOverride.
[controllers/external-dns-route53](components/controllers/external-dns-route53) | [external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns) is a controller that automatically creates dns records for your ingresses and loadbalancer services. This is a chart that deploys an opinionated configuration for working with AWS Route 53
[controllers/pod-cidr-controller](components/controllers/pod-cidr-controller) | This bash-controller watches over Cluster objects and patches spec.clusterNetwork.pods.cidrBlocks
[cron-jobs/scale-down](components/cron-jobs/scale-down) | running a cron job that scales down worker nodes during non work hours and weekends.
[id-management/active-directory](components/id-management/active-directory) | Example how to configure KKP with Active Directory
[loadbalancers/metallb](components/loadbalancers/metallb) | Example config for MetalLB what aims to redress this imbalance by offering a Network LB implementation that integrates with standard network equipment
[logging/audit/static-audit-log](components/logging/audit/static-audit-log) | Description how static audit logging could get configured
[vm-images/packer-ubuntu1804-vsphere-template](./components/vm-images/packer-ubuntu1804-vsphere-template)|A packer template to customize an ubuntu 18.04 cloud-image on vSphere

## Kubermatic Example Setups

Name|Description
---|---
[vSphere kubeOne / Kubermatic demo](./examples/vsphere-kubeone-kubermatic)| an example for running kubermatic on vSphere with kubeOne to install the

## Kubermatic Addons

Configuration and tooling for common used [Kubermatic Addons](https://docs.kubermatic.com/kubermatic/master/advanced/addons/) for user cluster customization.

Name|Description
---|---
[Makefile](kubermatic-addons/Makefile) | Wrapper for building KKP addons for a dedicated version
[addon-manifests](kubermatic-addons/addon-manifests) | Holding the `AddonConfig` custom resource specifications for a set of addons to configure KKP UI
[custom-addon/dns-resolve-overwrite](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/dns-resolve-overwrite) | A DaemonSet with privileged permissions to overwrite the host DNS at the kubernetes nodes
[custom-addon/echoserver](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/echoserver) | Simple echo server application as an example workload deployment with ingress config
[custom-addon/helm-operator](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/helm-operator) | Deploys the [FluxCD - Helm Operator](https://github.com/fluxcd/helm-operator) for managing additional deployment trough Helm by CRD
[kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/ingress-nginx](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/ingress-nginx) | Deploys the [Ingress Nginx Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) to the user cluster
[custom-addon/loki-stack](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/loki-stack) | (Requires Helm Operator) Add Grafana Loki stack based on [Grafana Loki Charts](https://grafana.github.io/loki/charts)
[custom-addon/metallb](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/metallb) | MetalLB cluster addon for on-premise user cluster without native LB support
[custom-addon/theia-ide](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/theia-ide) | Customized KKP addon for quickly using [Eclipse Theia IDE](https://theia-ide.org/) at your Kubernetes cluster.
[custom-addon/trident-installer](kubermatic-addons/custom-addon/trident-installer)| Addon for [NetApp Trident](https://github.com/NetApp/trident) storage support into a user cluster
[custom-addon/openebs](kubermatic-addons/custom-addons/openebs) | [OpenEBS](https://openebs.io/) addon for on-premise users without distributed storage
[custom-addon/amd-gpu](kubermatic-addons/custom-addons/amd-gpu) | [AMD-GPU](https://github.com/RadeonOpenCompute/k8s-device-plugin) device plugin addon
[custom-addon/kubeflow](kubermatic-addons/custom-addons/kubeflow) | [Kubeflow](https://github.com/kubermatic/flowmatic) Machine Learning Toolkit

## Helper
List of helper scripts and tools

Name|Description
---|---
[git-crypt](./helper/git-crypt)| [git-crypt](https://github.com/AGWA/git-crypt) is a tooling to encrypt git repositories based GPG keys
[kubeone-tool-container](./helper/kubeone-tool-container)|A docker container with various tools to work with KubeOne and Kubernetes
[kubermatic-installer-script](helper/kubermatic-installer-script) | Contains a standalone usage of [kubermatic - deploy.sh](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/blob/master/hack/ci/deploy.sh) repo installation script for own installations.
[kubermatic-makefile](helper/kubermatic-makefile/Makefile) | Contains a template `Makefile` to manage kubermatic deployments
[ssh-debug](helper/ssh-debug) | SSH Debug Client for quickly ssh to nodes in an internal network
[vault/vault-k8s-mapper](helper/vault/vault-k8s-mapper) | Maps Vault secret as native Kubernetes secret into a defined namespace/secret.
[vault/vault-kv-management.sh](helper/vault/vault-kv-management.sh) | Management script to up/download secrets to a vault secret kv store.
[delete-evicted-pods-all-ns.sh](helper/delete-evicted-pods-all-ns.sh) | Deletes pods in state `evicted`
[headless.vnc.test.container.yaml](helper/headless.vnc.test.container.yaml) | [docker-headless-vnc-container](https://github.com/ConSol/docker-headless-vnc-container) container containing Linux UI exposed via webvnc for testing e.g. dashboards from internal cluster view
[kill-kube-ns.sh](helper/kill-kube-ns.sh) | kills a pending kubernetes namespace
[kubeconfig-kubermatic-serviceaccount.sh](/helper/kubeconfig-kubermatic-serviceaccount.sh) | creates an `kubermatic` service account at an seed cluster
[machinedeployment-patch.gce.sh](helper/machinedeployment-patch.gce.sh) | Scripts patches some specification of an Cluster API `MachineDeployment` object.
[set-build-tags-to-image.sh](helper/set-build-tags-to-image.sh) | Set dedicated build tags to the [Kubermatic Charts](https://github.com/kubermatic/kubermatic/tree/master/charts)
[untaint_master.sh](helper/untaint_master.sh) | untaints all master nodes, to be able to schedule workload
[bash-port-scanner.sh](helper/linux-port-scan-without-dependencies/scan.sh) | A Bash bases Port-Scanner which is able to scan ports without any dependencies or tools like nmap
## Knowledge Base
Helpful how-tos and detailed documentation:

Name | Description
--- | ---
[setup-checklist/kkp](./knowledge-base/setup-checklist/kkp) | Detailed requirement documentation to setup Kubermatic KKP at different environments
[setup-checklist/kubeone](./knowledge-base/setup-checklist/kubeone) | Detailed requirement documentation to setup KubeOne at different environments
[how-to-convert-to-docx](./knowledge-base/how-to-convert-to-docx.md) | Commands to convert markdown to docx
[migrate-helm2-to-helm3](./knowledge-base/migrate-helm2-to-helm3.md) | This document shows you how to migrate Heml releases from using Helm version 2.x with Tiller to being managed by Helm version 3.x in place.
[node-health-check](knowledge-base/node-health-check.md)| This doc describes how Kubermatic node health checks works
[nvidia-gpu-operator](knowledge-base/nvidia-gpu-operator.md) | How to enable GPU support for KKP clusters by [NVIDIA - GPU Operator](https://github.com/NVIDIA/gpu-operator/)
[offline-setup](knowledge-base/offline-setup.md) | How to run kubermatic in offline environments
[upload-ova-with-govc](knowledge-base/upload-ova-with-govc.md) | How to upload ova by using `govc`

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues [file an issue][1] or talk to us on the [#kubermatic channel][12] on the [Kubermatic Slack][15].

## Contributing

Thanks for taking the time to join our community and start contributing!

Feedback and discussion are available on [#kubermatic channel][12].

### Before you start

* Please familiarize yourself with the [Code of Conduct][4] before contributing.
* See [CONTRIBUTING.md][2] for instructions on the developer certificate of origin that we require.

### Pull requests

* We welcome pull requests. Feel free to dig through the [issues][1] and jump in.

## Changelog

See [the list of releases][3] to find out about feature changes.

[1]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/issues
[2]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[3]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/releases
[4]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

[11]: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kubermatic-dev
[12]: https://kubermatic.slack.com/messages/kubermatic
[13]: https://github.com/kubermatic-labs/community-components/blob/master/Zenhub.md
[15]: http://slack.kubermatic.io/
